# KsponSpeech

## About the corpus

KsponSpeech is a large-scale spontaneous speech corpus of Korean. This corpus contains 965.2 hours of general
open-domain dialog utterances with transcriptions. More information can be found
at https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/10/19/6936

## Prepare data

You can download KsponSpeech at https://aihub.or.kr/aidata/105/download

Run following script to unzip the downloaded file

```bash
./unzip_ksponspeech.sh "PATH_TO_DOWNLOADED/한국어 음성" PATH_TO_UNZIPPED
```

pcm files need to be converted to wav for training. Run following script for the conversion.

```bash
python conert_to_wav.py --dirpath PATH_TO_UNZIPPED --nj num_processes
```

## How to run an ASR experiment with KsponSpeech

To train a full speech recognition system the pipeline is the following:

1. **Train a tokenizer.** The tokenizer takes in input the training transcripts and determines the subword units that
   will be used for both acoustic and language model training. **Training a tokenizer before the language and acoustic
   model is necessary**. Indeed, both of them will reuse this tokenizer to map the output tokens.
2. **Train a Language Model (LM).** The language model takes in input long texts from available books. We have recipes
   with RNN and transformer-based LMs. In both cases, the LM is used during beam search to assign different weights to
   different hypotheses generated by the acoustic model.
3. **Train an acoustic model (AM).** The acoustic model maps the input speech into a set of sub-words units. The current
   repository contains recipes for transformer-based systems.

**The results obtained with the different models can be found in the corresponding sub-directories!**

